DEVX-2454: Complete phase 1 from "IA Content & Observability in CCloud" 1-pager (#942)
confluentinc/examples: ccloud-monitoring/docs/monitoring-overview.rst

.. _ccloud-cli-tutorial-monitoring-overview:

Monitor producers and consumers
-------------------------------

> Using Confluent Cloud has the advantage of circumventing the trials and tribulations of monitoring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using |ccloud| has the advantage of circumventing the trials and tribulations of monitoring
```

Author: 👍

.. _ccloud-monitoring-overview:

Monitor Overview and Setup
--------------------------

Using |ccloud| has the advantage of circumventing the trials and tribulations of monitoring

> a Kafka cluster but you still need to monitor your client applications. Your success in Confluent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a Kafka cluster, but you still need to monitor your client applications. Your success in Confluent
```

Cloud largely depends on how well your applications are performing. Monitoring your client
applications gives you insights on how to fine tune your producers and consumers, when to scale

> your |ccloud| cluster, what might be going wrong and how to resolve the problem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
your |ccloud| cluster, what might be going wrong, and how to resolve the problem.
```

> This module will cover how to setup a time-series database populated with data from the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This module covers how to set up a time-series database populated with data from the
```

|ccloud| Metrics API and client metrics from a locally running Java consumer and producer,

> along with how to setup a data visualization tool. After the initial setup, you will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
along with how to set up a data visualization tool. After the initial setup, you will
```

> follow a series of scenarios that create failure scenarios and how you can be alerted when they occur.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
follow a series of scenarios to create failure scenarios and to be alerted when the errors occur.
```

   ``~/.netrc`` file.

#. Clone the `confluentinc/examples <https://github.com/confluentinc/examples>`__ GitHub repository.

   .. code-block:: bash

       git clone https://github.com/confluentinc/examples.git

#. Navigate to the ``examples/ccloud-monitoring/`` directory and switch to
   the |cp| release branch:

   .. codewithvars:: bash

       cd examples/ccloud-monitoring/
       git checkout |release_post_branch|

#. Proceed to `Monitoring Container Setup`_ section if you would like to walk through how to setup a |ccloud| cluster, secrets, and monitoring pieces.
   Alternatively, you can setup a |ccloud| cluster along with everything described in the `Monitoring Container Setup`_ section by running
   :devx-examples:`start.sh script|ccloud-monitoring/start.sh`:

   .. code-block:: bash

      ./start.sh

#. It will take up to 3 minutes for data to become visible in Grafana.
   Open `Grafana <localhost:3000>`__ and use the username ``admin`` and password ``password`` to login.
   Now you are ready to proceed to Producer, Consumer, or General scenarios to see what different failure scenarios look like.

Monitoring Container Setup
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> #. Create a |ccloud| cluster by running the following commands, this will take a few minutes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Create a |ccloud| cluster by running the following commands. This will take a few minutes:
```
